Internet of Things (IoT): Definitions, Challenges and
Recent Research Directions
Zainab H. AliHesham A. AliMahmoud M. Badawy
Dept. of Computer Eng. &
Systems, Mansoura University,
Egypt.Dept. of Computer Eng. &
Systems, Mansoura University,
Egypt.Dept. of Computer Eng. &
Systems, Mansoura University,
Egypt.
ABSTRACT
In this paper, we seek to highlight the concept of Internet of
Things (IoT) in general, as well as reviewing the main
challenges of the IoT environment by focusing on the recent
research directions in this topic. Recently, IoT has emerged
as a new technology that is used to express a modern
wireless telecommunication network, and it can be defined
as an intelligent and interoperability node interconnected in
a dynamic global infrastructure network, also it seeks to
implement the connectivity concept of anything from
anywhere at anytime. Indeed, the IoT environment
possesses a large spectrum of challenges has a broad impact
on their performance, which can be divided into two
categories, namely, i) General challenges: such as
communication, heterogeneity, virtualization and security;
and ii) Unique challenges: such as wireless sensor network
(WSN), Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), and finally
Quality of service (QoS) that is considered as a common
factor between both general and special challenges. In
addition, this paper highlights the main applications of the
IoT.
Keywords
IoT; heterogeneity; virtualization; WSN; RFID; QoS.
1. INTRODUCTION
Today, we are living in the era of smart technologies which
represents a "ubiquitous computing" or “web 0.3”. Internet
of Things (IoT) has emerged strongly as a more prosperous
area to express this kind of a new technology. It is not the
first technology in this field, but also the cloud computing
technology has been used to represent the ubiquitous
computing world. In the seventh in the series of ITU
Internet Reports originally it was launched in 1997 under
the title “Challenges to the Network” [1], and it was first
coined by Kevin Ashton in the RFID journal 1999 [2], In
2005 this name was changed to “Internet of things“. The
vision of IoT according to Kevin’s vision was to enable
networked devices to propagate their information about
physical world objects through the web. In recent years, the
most of the IoT proposed architectures are used, web
semantic to publish information through the social
networks; for instance, the iPhone has innovated service is
Nike + iPod to record information and published it on the
social networks and the social network friends [3].
Actually, the definition of IoT varies based on who you
talk, but formally, it can be defined as a dynamic global
network infrastructure with self-configuration and
interoperable communication. Simply, IoT means the
ability to make everything around us starting from (i.e.
Machine, Devices, Mobile phone and Cars) even (Cities
and Roads) are expected to be connected to the Internet
with an intelligent behavior and taking into account the
existence of the kind of autonomy and privacy. Meanwhile,
the IoT environment contains a huge number of the
different objects/things can be classified into two types
namely; i) Things rechargeable batteries things: the most of
them are mobiles (e.g. Laptop, tablets and mobile phone),
and ii) Things are non-rechargeable things: these things are
static from the mobility point of view [4]. Generally, IoT
includes three main demands are: the first, a shared
understanding of the situation of its users and their
applications. Secondly, software architecture and pervasive
communication networks to cover and process contextual
information, and lastly, the analytics tools in IoT that aims
for autonomous and intelligent behavior [5].
Considerably, can be expressed the principle idea of IoT is
promoting the communication between anything from
anywhere at anytime through context-aware applications.
Accordingly, IoT has relied on RFID and sensor network
technologies in the implementations. For instance, IBM
company used IoT in Norwegian Sea oil platforms, by
deploying sensors at seabed that are used to collect real
information to make decision drill in the sea [3].
On the other hand, the IoT environment like many networks
suffering from the set of challenges which significantly
affect their performance some of them are common and
others, are special; the paper divides these challenges into
two categories, namely, i) General challenges: which
include common challenges between IoT and traditional
network such as communication, heterogeneity, QoS,
scalability, virtualization, data mining and security; and ii)
Special challenges: such as RFID and WSN.
The main objective of this paper provides an overview
about IoT, its definition, its architecture, and discusses the
differences between IoT and the traditional Internet; then
highlighting the challenges of IoT and the recent research
directions to solve them. Finally, the rest of this paper is
summarized as follows: section II, introducing an overview
about IoT concept, its history and its inception also
discussing the differences between IoT and the traditional
Internet; section III, focusing on the challenges and recent
research directions to address them and section IV,
reviewing a set of the most popular applications in IoT
2. Related Work
In this section, the paper seeks to offer a brief overview
about IoT, its definition, its history and its inception also
highlight the architecture design of IoT that is relied on
three dimensions called “IoT infrastructure”; and the final
part in this section discusses the similarities and differences
between both IoT and traditional Internet.